Before we create the arm bones I think I'd like to take these arms and rotate them up so they're in
a t pose.
When we take the character into unity it's going to look for a t pose for the character and I think
we need to do that now before we go any further.
So I'm going to select the character and I will tab and edit mode and I think what I need to do is select
just this edge right here I'll ult click it right there and I want to put the cursor at this point so
that I can rotate the arms up around that point right there and I think that will also be where we put
the upper arm joint as well so let's go ahead and press shift s and put the cursor to the selected then
what I'll do is change my pivot point to the 3d cursor and then I want to select this whole arm and
the hand go back to that front view and let's rotate this up and what I want to do is hit the R key
and hold down the control button.
And if you look in the upper left hand corner of the 3D view you can see I'm rotating this snapping
it in increments of 5 degrees and that's just so I can do the other one in the exact same way and I
think if I get the arm about right here looks like that's 70 degrees.
So if I click there and I've got the arm or I want it here.
So all we have to do now is come over to this one do the same thing and rotate it up 70 degrees as well.
Let's go back to that front view.
It's like the arm in the hand.
And now let's hit R and control and let's rotate this one up 70 degrees as well.
There we go.
So now we've got our character in a kind of a tee pose.
Now going to use that same process here to bring the cursor back over to this side cursor to selected
there and I'll change the pivot point back to medium point.
You can also press the period key and get this same menu as well.
So I think what I'll do now is go back to the armature select it and go to edit mode and now when I
create a new bone here it'll pop into the 3d cursor right there.
So let's give it a trial press shift a and there it is.
Now we can take this point and bring it down to the elbow.
So I'll just hit G and bring it down about like this.
Let's zoom in with the period key here and maybe I'll bring it about like this.
So it's more horizontal.
Now let's go back to the top view with the seven key and let's see where we can place this.
Now we have those three edges on this character or on the arm here and that should help us place this
joint but we can't see the edges currently.
So what we need to do is tap back into object mode and select the character.
And if we go over here to viewport display under our object tab we can come down here and check wireframe
and I'll also choose all edges here.
So now when we go back to the armature tab back into edit mode we can see these edges and we can place
our joints more precisely right on this edge right on that edge that will be that elbow.
All right.
So now that I've got this I'm going to hit e and we'll extend this on down to here and then we can hit
B and extend this out for the hand and we go and then we also need to create the bones for the hand
here.
And this is kind of a strange hand.
It's really not much like anything else we might create.
So we're gonna have to kind of wing it here as to how we should do this.
I think what I'm to do is just take this point here and extrude it up maybe one two three times so let's
try that I'll hit e up to hear it again to here and again to here and let's see how that works.
Well it's way off axis on our hand and that's fine.
We need to do some work here.
So let me grab this one and move it.
I'm going to try and move them along this edge here move it like this this like that.
Here we go.
That's a little bit more in line with the hand.
Let's do that again.
I'll select that tip and kind of arrange the view so it's kind of at the side of the hand here.
Again it e there and I'm just trying to place them on these edges here like that.
And then let's go down on the bottom here try and line up the view and we'll try and place these along
that edge as well and we go.
All right.
So we have those before we mirror these over to the other side.
We should do the legs as well.
So for these I think we also want to place that route joint or that upper leg joint right in the center
of this cylinder.
So what we need to do once again is tab back into object mode and select the character tab into edit
mode.
Let's go to wireframe and let's see if we can just select these two points right here in here.
Let's try this.
And I think if we place the cursor right here we'll be pretty good.
So let's press shift s and cursor to selected.
All right.
Now let's go back here select that armature if the tab key to go back into edit mode.
And now here in the front view again I'm going to create the bone at that cursor.
So shift a.
And now let's take this guy and just move it down to the knee.
I think what I'll do is I'll try and hit G and press control and it will kind of snap down here and
hopefully it'll be straight up and down.
Yeah.
That looks pretty vertical there.
So I'll bring that up to the knee joint and then let's go to the side view.
And up here with the arm joint we kind of automatically created a bend here because the arm was already
bent down here at the leg the leg is just purely straight but we're gonna need a bend here in this one
especially because I'm going to put inverse Kana Maddox or an i k chain on the leg.
I won't do it on the arms because I think it'll be better to use forward Kenny Maddox but I want to
use Ike here on the legs so I need a slight bend in the leg so blender knows in its calculations which
way the leg is supposed to bend so I'll pull this forward just a bit.
Kind of like this and then I'll hit e and let's bring this joint down to where the ankle might be right
here and then I'll hit you again bring that down to where the toe might bend and then I'll hit e and
drag this straight out like that.
There we go.
So now we need to go through and name all of these.
So let's begin up here.
This one I'll call up arm dot L and this one will be low arm.
El this one could be just hand.
EL and these I believe what I'm going to do is call these fingers on the top and thumb on the bottom.
Just a way to differentiate them so I'm going to call this finger one dot.
El bat and this one we can call finger to dial
and fingers three dot l
down here.
We're gonna call this thumb one detail
thumb to dot L
and thumb three and we go all right.
So we have those done down here with the leg.
Let's call this up leg dot l this one would be low leg l this one would be foot dot L and then toe dot
L right here and we go.
Okay so now we have these pretty much set up that is really all of the bones that we're gonna need for
this very simple character.
So in the next video what let's do is let's mirror these over to the other side and let's parent the
arm and the legs to the main torso.